Globalization has enriched our lives

By: Susie Zhang
November 12, 2022

Can you imagine having the world at your fingertips?

This is not a far-fetched dream but a reality for many of us, especially those in the western hemisphere. And it is becoming the reality for more and more people in the developing countries as well.

In 2019 before the pandemic hit, globally more than 100, 000 commercial flights operated on any given day. We can fly anywhere in the world, and travel has become a popular activity for many of us. Travelling not only expands one’s horizons and exposes one to different cultures, but it has also been linked to positive mental health. It fosters cultural understanding and connectedness and improves the quality of life of the individual and potentially between nations.

Even those of us who don't have the means or the interest to travel can still access culture and knowledge from around the world from the comfort of our home. Many famous works of literature have been translated into multiple languages and circulated world-wide. The famous novel written by American author F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby, is a good example—it has been translated into at least forty-two languages and exported worldwide to be enjoyed by millions of non-English speaking readers. With a Netflix subscription of only $5.99 a month, we can watch a plethora of foreign films with the aid of English subtitles. We can watch YouTube and TikTok videos posted by anyone in the world for free. All this could not happen without the existence of global supply chains and the internet, not to mention the multilingual people that acquired fluency in multiple languages.

The amount of knowledge shared around the world is vast and encompasses all disciplines, from art and culture to science and tech, and everything in between. Thanks to global collaboration and effort, the Covid 19 vaccine was developed in just under one year. Today, thirty vaccines have been approved for use worldwide. As of mid-2022, twelve billion doses have been administered, and two-thirds of the global population have been vaccinated.

Health treatments are also becoming more merged. The Canadian Cancer Society now recognizes alternative therapies as complementary to conventional cancer treatments and the benefit they can have on overall health and well-being. Their website discusses ancient practices such as aboriginal traditional healing, acupuncture, ayurveda, among others. This is a beautiful example of the meeting of east and west, ancient and modern, and it would not be possible without the sharing of health traditions and practices around the world.

A more globalized and interconnected world means greater opportunities for all. Our lives are enriched by a greater wealth of art and literature, a greater range of experiences, and a greater well of inspiration. The fast and wide exchange of information means that science and technology are advancing at a faster pace, making our lives easier and more convenient. We are no longer confined to our own small world but can draw from the wisdom and knowledge from all places in the world.

Just like a person needs to engage with larger society to flourish, we, as a nation, benefit tremendously from our interactions with other countries. Thanks to globalization, we have a myriad of opportunities at our fingertips, and we need to seize and embrace them all.